So six to four tunnels must use this address range 2002 colon colon slash 16 as I've mentioned this
is a special address signed by the Ayana specifically for six to tunnels.
The advantage of this method is it allows for the establishment of automatic tunnels and it gives a
prefix to the attached IP version 6 network.
The version for address is converted to hexadecimal and added to this address so 16 bits plus 32 bits
gives you 48.
So the subnets must have a mosque slash 48.
Note this IP address 1 9 2 1 6 8 9 9 1 which is the IP address of rota of one's interface connecting
to this IP version 4 infrastructure 1 6 x 32 out one is the IP address of router 2 and acting to the
IP version for infrastructure.
Now using a Windows calculator one and two in decimal equals zero in hexadecimal.
1 6 8 in decimal equals 8 in hexadecimal.
In other words this portion of the address is the hexadecimal representation of this IP address.
This portion of this address is the hexadecimal representation of 191 ex-city not one.
So when traffic is sent from this MacBook to this network router one knows that it needs to encapsulate
that traffic and send it to 1 9 2 1 6 8 0 1 and vice versa when the server sends traffic to this MacBook
on this network.
It's going to send it to its default gateway router to router to knows that it needs to send that traffic
to this IP address which is the IP address of router one because of the information contained in the
IP version 6 address router to encapsulate that IP version 6 traffic inside an IP version 4 tunnel and
send it to Route 1.
We will then deescalate it and send it as an IP version 6 packet to the MacBook intra site automatic
tunnel addressing protocol is an automatic overlayed tunneling mechanism that once again uses IP version
4 as a linkage layer for IP version 6.
These type of tunnels allow individual IP version 4 IP version 6.
Joel Steck hosts with a site to communicate with other hosts on a virtual link creating an IP version
6 network using the IP version for infrastructure.
It would allow a host for example to set up a dynamic IP version 6 tunnel to a Cisco router a cross
an IP version for infrastructure Torito tunneling allows for host to host automatic tunneling instead
of Gateway tunneling.
It can be used to postes unique cost IPV 6 traffic when Joe Stack hosts are located behind one or multiple
IP version 4 network address translators for this cause Don't worry too much about the technical details
of these two tunneling methods.
Just recognize that they are valid IP version 4 2 IP version 6 transition mechanisms.
Let's look at tunneling IP version 6 over IP version 4.
So when we are only going to run IP version for serial 00 we are going to configure 10 1 to 1 on our
1 and 1 or 2 serial 0 0 we are only going to configure 10:01 Tuti so on Router one show run interface
serial 0 0 shows us that we still have IP version 6 configured so lets remove that
do show run interface serial 0 0 shows us that the IP address is removed nature moved up just to clean
up the configfs.
And as you can see all IP version 6 configuration has been removed from the interface.
Its do the same on router to
interface 0 0 0.
No IPV 6 address no IPV 6 rUK
enable.
Once again only IP version formis interface.
So back router 1 laptop show IPV six route.
It'll only see the local Borat's.
I will not be able to ping
this remote network because there is no IP version 6 connectivity from this router to this router.
So just to sum up show run interface if 00 shows us that we're not running IP version for on the fast
ethernet interface
and we are not running IP version 6 on the serial interface of our one on our t
shell run into base 0 0 shows us that we're not running our provision for on the fast ethernet interface
and we are not running IP version 6 on the serial interface.
So let's set up a tunnel to allow connectivity between the IP version 6 networks.
So to do that you have to create a tunnel interface.
Some of the interface tunnel Zira I'm going to be lazy now and just say IPV 6 address 2003 colon column
1 specify the tunnels source is 10 to 1 2 2 to 1 that tunnel destination is going to be 10 dot 1.2 or
T which is this IP address on the serial in the face of arti the tunnel mode is going to be IP V-6 IP
otherwise the default of GRB would be used
in this case I'm going to specify a static route.
So this route is available through tunnels 0 on router 1 on router.
I can be something similar.
So create a tunnel interface specify an IP version 6 address
specify the tunnel source
tunnel destination
tunnel mode that is the various options you are going to go for IPV 6 over IP encapsulation specify
a steady grot.
Now let's see if it works.
So on Rotto one show IPV six route shows me that steady route through tunnels Zira.
So let's ping 2001 on one column one column three column column one.
And as you can see it succeeds.
We do a trace.
You can see it succeeds just to prove this to you again if I shut the tunnel down.
And trying to ping the ping will time out as you can see the that again.
So let's know shut the tunnel telling devices come up and say you got it's working because the tunnel
is now up and functioning proxying and translation.
In other words in net Peetie or network address translation protocol translation al-Assal the translation
of both IP addresses and protocols.
In other words this host on the left hand side only communicate using IP version for the host on the
right side only communicates using IP version 6.
The router in the middle can act as a translator translating between IP version for an IP version 6
and vice versa.
I'm going to demonstrate this in a moment.
So let's look at an example of configuring net P-T or net protocol translation Rotto one is only running
IP version 6 router 2 is doing protocol translation between IP B-6 on it's serial 00 interface an IP
version 4 when it's Fosset Ethan and 00 interface.
Router 3 is only running IP version for on Route 1 show IP interface grief shows you that there are
no IP addresses configured on any interfaces.
In other words there is no IP version for running on this router show IP V-6 interface grief shows you
that we have this IP address configured on the serial 00 interface.
On router 3 show IP interface brief shows me that I have I could raise 10:01 one to configure it on.
Ethan It's 0 0 as per our diagram show IP V-6 interface brief shows me that I have no IP addresses configured
on the router.
So no IPV 6 in-running on the router.
On router te show IP interface brief shows me that I have IP address 10 111 configured on the first
Ethan interface but no other IP addresses show IP V-6 interface brief shows me that I have this IP address
configured on the serial interface as per our diagram.
Now I've configured this command IPV 6 Knecht on the first Ethan an interface
as well as on the serial interface again you can see the IP address on the first.
Ethan interface's IP version 4 and the IP address on the serial interface is IP version 6 at the top.
These commands
this command defines the IP V-6 prefix used as the net protocol translation prefix in the six domain.
The only prefix lenth supported is a slash 96.
And they're not created static mappings.
I'm telling the router that this IP address 10:01 one.
Which is the IP address of router 3 needs to be translated to this IP version 6 address.
I'm also telling it that this IPV 6 address which is the IP address of Rodda one should be translated
to this IP address.
Notice 10 1 1 3 doesn't exist as an IP address on any device.
Neither does this IP address in the first Nat statement.
We are translating IP version 4 to IP version 6.
So it's a valid IP version 4 address on router 3 configured to a fake IP address in a second net C'mon
we are doing IP V-6 TV for translation.
So this is a real IP address configured on router 1 Going to a fake IP address in the IP version 4 domain.
But within the subnet.
So now on router 1 I can pin the IP V-6 address associated with the IP version 4 address over out of
three and notice the ping succeeds on router 3.
I can ping 10 dot wandered 3 which is the IP version for address that represents Rotto 1 and noticed
the ping succeeds to prove this let us type debug IP ICMP on Route 3 and then on Route 1 do a ping to
that address.
And as you can see here router 3 is sending a reply from a source of 10 1 1 to its IP address to a destination
of 10 1 1 3 the netted IP version 4 address for router ones IP 6 address tapping the command show IP
NAT translation shows no translations by tapping the C'mon show.
IPV six net translations shows me my net translations 10:01 one twos going to that address 10 1 1 3
is going to that address.
Those are source translations.
Notice IPV for source to IPV B-6 source.
But notice the source and destination options and thats what you are seeing over here.
So that was an example of net translation lets do a debug debug IPV 6 net and it just enable all that
obviously in the real world you need to be very careful doing that.
And here's an example you can see IP version 6.
NET translating ICMP with a source address which is IP version 6 to an IP version 4 source that race
going to a destination of 10 1 1 2 which is IP version for the IP V-6 equivalent that we created in
net.
Is that address by the same token a ping to 10 1 1 3 and you can see the net translations taking place.
So this is an example of static IP vision for the IP version 6 Network Address Translation protocol
translation or net.
Peetie So what are we covered.
I explained the need for IP version 6 the 3rd of February 2011 was a major milestone in the history
of the Internet with the exhaustion of an allocated IPV for addresses.
We are now being forced to implement IP version 6.
I explained the format of an IP version 6 address.
We looked at methods of assigning an IP address.
We spoke about the updated routing protocols which are used in IP version 6 environments including Ripp
energy and OSPF vision 3.
We spoke about various implementation strategies such as tunneling jewelled Stex net.
I was to some time demonstrating the functionality of IPV six networks including the configuration of
Ripp in G.
Thank you for watching.